basic.md, before:

---
# Page settings
layout: default
keywords:
comments: false

# Hero section
title: Bandyer basic concepts
description: Learn the basics of what Bandyer Integration is and how it works.

# Micro navigation
micro_nav: true

---

### The platform <a name="platform"></a>

The Bandyer platform makes it easy to embed real-time, high-quality interactive video, messaging, screen-sharing, 
and more into web and mobile apps. The platform includes client libraries for web, iOS, Android, 
as well as REST API. Bandyer uses WebRTC for audio-video communications.

**All applications built with the Bandyer platform require two primary components:**

- **The Client** — client-side code that runs in a browser or mobile app, set up by the developer 
using the Bandyer client-side libraries, which are available for Web, iOS, and Android. 
The client-side handles the majority of Bandyer functionality.
- **The Server** — server-side code executed on a web server set up by the developer using the Bandyer REST API.

### Calls <a name="calls"></a>

Every Bandyer video chat occurs within a call. You can think of a call as a “room” where clients can interact 
with one another in real-time. Call are hosted on the Bandyer cloud and manage user connections,
audio-video streams, and user events (such as a new user joining). Each call is associated with a unique call ID.
<!-- To allow multiple clients to chat with one another, you would simply have them connect to the same call 
(using the same call ID). -->

The client is responsabile for creating new calls from his client SDKs.
Clients connected to a call can publish streams and subscribe to other clients’ streams. 
For more info on how clients connect to a call, see the next section.


### Publishing and subscribing <a name="pubsub"></a>

<!-- qui dovrei spiegare anche il dialing -->
This section provides the steps required for two clients to initiate a video chat call.

**Step 1: Client authentication**

The client connects to Bandyer Server and send his credential (appId and userAlias). After that, he's ready to create a 
call.

**Step 2: The call is created by the client**

Your client (Client 1), using Bandyer SDKs, creates a call with one or more users and receives the callID and the credentials needed to join the call.
At this point, the client is occupied.

**Step 3: The call is received by the others users**

The users within the created call (*Step 2*) receives the event of *Incoming Dial*. The client uses that info to perform
the answer or decline actions. If the client answers, he will receive the info needed to establish a connection to the 
specified call.

![bandyer_sdk_dial_flow](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/static.bandyer.com/corporate/images/docs/bandyer_sdk_dial_flow.png)


**Step 4: The clients subscribe to each other’s streams**

Now that it’s connected to the call, Client 2 can subscribe to Client 1’s stream. 
Client 2 then publishes its own video stream to the call, and Client 1 subscribes to it. 
Both clients are now subscribed to each other's stream in a one-to-one video chat,
and both are “listening” for new events (such as a new user connecting the call).

![bandyer_sdk_pubsub](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/static.bandyer.com/corporate/images/docs/bandyer_sdk_pubsub.png)

Bandyer supports one-to-one communication and conference call. 
Multiple clients can connect to a call and each connected clients can subscribe to each stream in the call. 
In addition to the basic functionality above, the Bandyer platform provides a variety of additional features such as 
screen-sharing, text chat, collaborative space, and more. 
<!-- To see the complete set of features offered,see the developer guides. -->

<!-- IMMAGINI DEL PUBLISH SUBSCRIBE -->
<!-- DIRE CHE NEL WEB E' AUTOMATICO -->

### Vocabolary

**Call**

You can think of a call as a "room" where clients can interact with one another in real-time. Clients can 
publish streams and subscribe to streams in the call, as well as listen for events dispatched by the call 
(such as a new user connecting).

---

**Dial**

The dial concept is the signaling process fired after a call request. When the client creates a call between another clients 
(for example Client 2), every client receive a *Incoming Dial* event. After that, the clients can choose to answer 
(they will obtain the credential to access the call) or decline the call.

---

**Answer**

The answer concept is the *action of answering* a *Incoming Dial* received. The clients who receives the *Incoming Dial*
event can answer the call received.

---

**Decline**

The decline concept is the *action of declining* a *Incoming Dial* received. The clients who receives the *Incoming Dial*
event can decline the call received.

---

**Publish**

Once a client is connected to a call, it can publish an audio-video stream to the call using the device’s webcam
and microphone.

---

**Subscribe**

Once a client is connected to a call, it can subscribe to any audio-video streams published by other clients
in the call.

---

**Events**

Once a client establishes a connection to a call, it is able to listen for events dispatched by the call.
Events are dispatched for a variety of reasons, such as a new stream being created or a new client connecting or
disconnecting from the call. If you want a client to react to a certain event, you must set up an event listener.
For information on the various events that can occur during a call and how to handle them,
check out the client SDK reference docs for web (JavaScript), iOS, and Android.

---


**Client SDK**

The client SDKs are a set of code libraries available for web (JavaScript), iOS, Android, used to set up the client. 
The client-side code handles the majority of Bandyer functionality, including publishing and subscribing to streams 
in the call and listening for call events.

---

**Bandyer REST API**

The Bandyer REST API is an HTTP interface with the Bandyer Cloud used to create calls and handle advanced features
such as archiving and broadcast. The Bandyer server SDKs implement many of the methods of the REST API. 
Check out the REST API reference docs to learn the various methods available.

Commit message:

- Integration of common use case - Doc of the Communication Center

basic.md, after:

---
# Page settings
layout: default
keywords:
comments: false

# Hero section
title: Bandyer basic concepts
description: Learn the basics of what Bandyer Integration is and how it works.

# Micro navigation
micro_nav: true

---

### The platform <a name="platform"></a>

The Bandyer platform makes it easy to embed real-time, high-quality interactive video, messaging, screen-sharing, 
and more into web and mobile apps. The platform includes client libraries for web, iOS, Android, 
as well as REST API. Bandyer uses WebRTC for audio-video communications.

**All applications built with the Bandyer platform require two primary components:**

- **The Client** — client-side code that runs in a browser or mobile app, set up by the developer 
using the Bandyer client-side libraries, which are available for Web, iOS, and Android. 
The client-side handles the majority of Bandyer functionality.
- **The Server** — server-side code executed on a web server set up by the developer using the Bandyer REST API.

### Calls <a name="calls"></a>

Every Bandyer video chat occurs within a call. You can think of a call as a “room” where clients can interact 
with one another in real-time. Call are hosted on the Bandyer cloud and manage user connections,
audio-video streams, and user events (such as a new user joining). Each call is associated with a unique call ID.
<!-- To allow multiple clients to chat with one another, you would simply have them connect to the same call 
(using the same call ID). -->

The client is responsabile for creating new calls from his client SDKs.
Clients connected to a call can publish streams and subscribe to other clients’ streams. 
For more info on how clients connect to a call, see the next section.


### Publishing and subscribing <a name="pubsub"></a>

<!-- qui dovrei spiegare anche il dialing -->
This section provides the steps required for two clients to initiate a video chat call.

**Step 1: Client authentication**

The client connects to Bandyer Server and send his credential (appId and userAlias). After that, he's ready to create a 
call.

**Step 2: The call is created by the client**

Your client (Client 1), using Bandyer SDKs, creates a call with one or more users and receives the callID and the credentials needed to join the call.
At this point, the client is occupied.

**Step 3: The call is received by the others users**

The users within the created call (*Step 2*) receives the event of *Incoming Dial*. The client uses that info to perform
the answer or decline actions. If the client answers, he will receive the info needed to establish a connection to the 
specified call.

![bandyer_sdk_dial_flow](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/static.bandyer.com/corporate/images/docs/bandyer_sdk_dial_flow.png)


**Step 4: The clients subscribe to each other’s streams**

Now that it’s connected to the call, Client 2 can subscribe to Client 1’s stream. 
Client 2 then publishes its own video stream to the call, and Client 1 subscribes to it. 
Both clients are now subscribed to each other's stream in a one-to-one video chat,
and both are “listening” for new events (such as a new user connecting the call).

![bandyer_sdk_pubsub](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/static.bandyer.com/corporate/images/docs/bandyer_sdk_pubsub.png)

Bandyer supports one-to-one communication and conference call. 
Multiple clients can connect to a call and each connected clients can subscribe to each stream in the call. 
In addition to the basic functionality above, the Bandyer platform provides a variety of additional features such as 
screen-sharing, text chat, collaborative space, and more. 
<!-- To see the complete set of features offered,see the developer guides. -->

## Bandyer Communication Center

In addition to the possible integration of our technology within websites and mobile app, Bandyer makes available a new component that we will call **Communication Center**, to ease and speed-up the development process. The **Communication Center** allows the creation of a new channel that will facilitate the adoption of our technology within existing systems. 
The **Communication Center** creates a configured channel to forward all calls notifications and alerts. The latter regard all calls activities made by users - using the integrated technology - such as calls invitations, alerts of busy users and so on.

### What does the Communication Center do?

It makes possible to identify the user status: online, offline or busy (if so with whom) and the user device. 
The **Communication Center** allows to notify other systems such as by sending a message, a push notification or an email, after a predefined action is made by the user, or to forward the information to the correct receivers.
Thanks to Bandyer Webhooks, the **Communication Center** can always show the real time users’ status, to update their presence on other systems: for instance, updating the presence on a CTI solution (Computer Telephony Integration).

### What are the advantages of Bandyer Communication Center?

With the Bandyer **Communication Center** sending information to users will become automatic: in real time the mobile app and the website will ring whenever users are placing or receiving calls. Furthermore, developers won’t stress anymore over the implementation and maintenance of a stable environment managing all possible scenarios such as: calls placed simultaneously, calls to busy users and rejection or acceptance of calls. 
The **Communication Center** has been designed to offer a real-time communication channel with the benefit of a quick notification system, which works if users are either online or offline. In the latter, information must be forwarded by other means, such as emails, messages or notifications (GCM, APN).
All these alerts allow to reproduce the process of a traditional phone call, by making the mobile phone ring even when the app is closed and the lock screen on, to assure a flawless communication channel considering all scenarios where the user is not “active”.
Thanks to the continuous development and implementation of our **Communication Center**, the corporate will have a secure system to rely on, for all calls alerts and notifications.


## Vocabolary

**Call**

You can think of a call as a "room" where clients can interact with one another in real-time. Clients can 
publish streams and subscribe to streams in the call, as well as listen for events dispatched by the call 
(such as a new user connecting).

---

**Dial**

The dial concept is the signaling process fired after a call request. When the client creates a call between another clients 
(for example Client 2), every client receive a *Incoming Dial* event. After that, the clients can choose to answer 
(they will obtain the credential to access the call) or decline the call.

---

**Answer**

The answer concept is the *action of answering* a *Incoming Dial* received. The clients who receives the *Incoming Dial*
event can answer the call received.

---

**Decline**

The decline concept is the *action of declining* a *Incoming Dial* received. The clients who receives the *Incoming Dial*
event can decline the call received.

---

**Hang up**

The hangup concept is the *action of hanging up* a *running call*. The one to one call will terminate at the first hangup action.
Otherwise, the many to many call will continue when the clients remained are at least two.

---

**Publish**

Once a client is connected to a call, it can publish an audio-video stream to the call using the device’s webcam
and microphone.

---

**Subscribe**

Once a client is connected to a call, it can subscribe to any audio-video streams published by other clients
in the call.

---

**Events**

Once a client establishes a connection to a call, it is able to listen for events dispatched by the call.
Events are dispatched for a variety of reasons, such as a new stream being created or a new client connecting or
disconnecting from the call. If you want a client to react to a certain event, you must set up an event listener.
For information on the various events that can occur during a call and how to handle them,
check out the client SDK reference docs for web (JavaScript), iOS, and Android.

---


**Client SDK**

The client SDKs are a set of code libraries available for web (JavaScript), iOS, Android, used to set up the client. 
The client-side code handles the majority of Bandyer functionality, including publishing and subscribing to streams 
in the call and listening for call events.

---

**Bandyer REST API**

The Bandyer REST API is an HTTP interface with the Bandyer Cloud used to create calls and handle advanced features
such as archiving and broadcast. Check out the <a href="https://bandyer.com/assets/documentation/index.html" 
target="_blank"> REST API reference docs</a> to learn the various methods available.
